.TH "AdvanceMAME Automatic Video Configurator" 1
.SH NAME
advcfg \(hy AdvanceMAME Automatic Video Configurator
.SH SYNOPSIS 
advcfg [\(hyadvmamec] [\(hyadvmessc] [\(hyadvmenuc]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\(hylog] [\(hylogsync] [\(hyrc RCFILE] [\(hybit N]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION 
The \(oqadvcfg\(cq utility is the automatic video configuration
program for AdvanceMAME, AdvanceMESS and AdvanceMENU.
.PP
This utility works differently if one of the \(hyadvmamec,
\(hyadvmessc and \(hyadvmenuc option is specified.
The main difference is the name of the configuration
file used to store the video modes.
.PP
All the video modes used in the configuration process
have always negative horizontal and vertical sync polarity.
.PP
Check the \(oqadvdev.txt\(cq file for more details on the video
drivers supported.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \(hyrc RCFILE
Specify an alternate name of the configuration file.
.TP
.B \(hylog
A very detailed log of operations is saved in
a \(oq.log\(cq file. Very useful for debugging problems.
.TP
.B \(hylogsync
Like the \(oq\(hylog\(cq option but the log file is not
buffered. This option must be used to get a complete
log file in presence of a machine crash.
.TP
.B \(hyadvmamec, \(hyadvmessc, \(hyadvmenuc
Select the mode of operation for the programs
\(oqadvmame\(cq, \(oqadvmess\(cq and \(oqadvmenu\(cq.
The default is for \(oqadvmame\(cq.
.TP
.B \(hybit N
Select the bit depth of the test video modes.
If omitted 8 bit modes are used.
Valid values are 8, 15, 16 and 32.
.SH CONFIGURATION 
Depending one the command line options used one of the
\(oqadvmame.rc\(cq, \(oqadvmess.rc\(cq and \(oqadvmenu.rc\(cq file is used
to load and save the video configuration.
.PP
If the configuration process completes with success the
program adds these options in your configuration file:
.PP
.RS 4
device_video_clock ?
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
device_video_format ?
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
which define the capabilities of your monitor and video board.
And for the \(oqadvmame\(cq and \(oqadvmess\(cq modes also the options:
.PP
.RS 4
display_mode auto
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
display_adjust generate_yclock
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.RE
.PP
which select the \(oqautomatic\(cq video mode generation of the
emulators.
.PP
All these options are documented in the \(oqadvdev.txt\(cq
and \(oqadvmame.txt\(cq files.
.SH COPYRIGHT 
This file is Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Andrea Mazzoleni.
