.TH "AdvanceMAME Video Manual Configurator" 1
.SH NAME
advv \(hy AdvanceMAME Video Manual Configurator
.SH SYNOPSIS 
advv [\(hyadvmamev] [\(hyadvmessv] [\(hyadvmenuv]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\(hyvbev] [\(hyvgav] [\(hyvideowv] [\(hylog] [\(hylogsync]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
	[\(hyrc RCFILE]
.PD 0
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION 
The \(oqadvv\(cq utility is the main video configuration program
for the Advance programs. It selects, creates and tweaks
video modes interactively.
.PP
This utility works differently if one of the \(hyadvmamev,
\(hyadvmessv, \(hyadvmenuv, \(hyvbev, \(hyvgav and \(hyvideowv options
is specified.
The main difference is the the name of the configuration
file used to store the video modes.
.PP
Before running this utility you must add in your configuration
file the option \(oqdevice_video_clock\(cq required to defines
the limits of your monitor and video board. You can add them
manually or using the \(oqadvcfg\(cq utility.
.PP
Check the \(oqadvdev.txt\(cq file for more details on these options.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \(hyrc RCFILE
Specify an alternate name of the configuration file.
.TP
.B \(hylog
A very detailed log of operations is saved in
a \(oq.log\(cq file. Very useful for debugging problems.
.TP
.B \(hylogsync
Like the \(oq\(hylog\(cq option but the log file is not
buffered. This option must be used to get a complete
log file in presence of a machine crash.
.TP
.B \(hyadvmamev, \(hyadvmessv, \(hyadvmenuv, \(hyvbev, \(hyvgav, \(hyvideowv
Select the mode of operation for the programs \(oqadvmame\(cq,
\(oqadvmess\(cq, \(oqadvmenu\(cq, \(oqvbe\(cq, \(oqvga\(cq and \(oqvideow\(cq.
The default is \(oqadvmame\(cq.
.SH USE 
When the program starts a list of modelines is printed. You can
walk on the list with the UP and DOWN arrows of your keyboard.
You can select the modelines to use in the emulator pressing
SPACE.
.PP
With the LEFT and RIGHT arrows you can select the bit depth of
the video mode to test.
.PP
To test a video mode you can press ENTER and ESC to return
to the list.
.PP
When you have finished the selection press F2 to save the video
modes in the configuration file. At the next run the emulator
will use one of the modelines that you have chosen.
.PP
If you have problem please read the \(oqTroubleshooting\(cq chapter
in the \(oqinstall.txt\(cq file.
.PP
If you have correctly configured the \(oqdevice_video_p/h/vclock\(cq
options in your configuration file, the video modes out of
the frequency range supported by your monitor are displayed
in red, and you are prevented to use them.
.SS Creating Video Modes 
To create a new modeline you should press F5 or F6.
.PP
You will be asked for:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Vertical clock
.IP \(bu
Horizontal resolution
.IP \(bu
Vertical resolution
.PD
.PP
If possible, a video mode compatible with your current monitor
configuration is created. If a such mode doesn\(cqt exist,
with F5 are favorite video modes with the specified size,
with F6 are favorite video modes with the specified vertical
frequency.
.PP
If a the \(oqdevice_video_format\(cq option is present in your
configuration file, the video mode is created with this
format. Otherwise the generic VGA monitor format is used.
.PP
All the video modes created have always negative horizontal
and vertical sync polarity.
.SS Adjusting Modelines 
You can modify the modelines in the test screen pressing ENTER
or in the list screen directly.
.PP
When you are in the test screen, \(oqadvv\(cq prevent you to set a
modeline out of the frequency range supported by your monitor.
In this cases you can hear a grave long sound. Instead when you
are in the list screen you don\(cqt have this limitation.
.PP
If you request a parameter not supported by your hardware
you will hear an acute short sound.
.PP
You can easily change one of the clock values of your modelines
pressing F8.
.PP
Finally you can rename the modelines pressing TAB.
.PP
Remember to select the modified modelines with SPACE otherwise
they aren\(cqt saved in your configuration file and will be lost.
.SS Startup Text Mode 
The program at startup tries to set a text mode supported by
your hardware to show his data.
.PP
If a modelines named \(oqdefault_text\(cq is present in your
configuration file the program use it.
.PP
If correct \(oqdevice_video_p/h/vclock\(cq options are found in your
configuration file the program try to use a text mode that
match your clock configuration from a list of predefined
modes and the modes present in the configuration file.
.PP
If no one of these modes match your configuration the current
text mode is used.
.SH CONFIGURATION 
Depending one the command line options used one of the \(oqadvmame.rc\(cq,
\(oqadvmess.rc\(cq, \(oqadvmenu.rc\(cq, \(oqvbe.rc\(cq, \(oqvga.rc\(cq and
\(oqvideow.rc\(cq file is used to load and save the video configuration.
.SH COPYRIGHT 
This file is Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Andrea Mazzoleni.
